what's going on everyone welcome to this
video which is number five
in this series on how to launch a
podcast
if you haven't seen any of the other
videos go check them out video one i
talk about why you should launch a
podcast
in the second video i talk about the
prep and the leg work that you should do
before jumping into a podcast
number three is all about the equipment
that you need to launch a podcast
in the last video i talked about how to
write a great
script for your podcast and in this
video
and it is especially for those of you
who are thinking of doing a podcast
where you
interview other people this is about how
you land that interview guest
and things to keep in mind about why you
may want to interview people
so maybe you're going into this thinking
no i'm just going to be
the expert in my podcast i'm never going
to have guests on it it's just going to
be me who talks
well my question for you is that's fine
and maybe you're somebody who is really
recognized in your field
and you already have an audience and
that might make perfect sense for you
but if you're not in that position if
you don't have an established audience
already
how are people going to know about your
podcast
how are they going to find it if you're
not really great at marketing that or
you're not going to put paid dollars
behind it
or you don't have a strategy to get that
out you might run into some challenges
one of the benefits about interviewing
other people on your podcast or on your
youtube interview series is that
if you do a great interview that person
is going to want to share that interview
with their audience and you benefit from
that
right away if i interview somebody else
who has
5 000 twitter followers and they tweet
out that interview all of a sudden my
content
my podcast is being put in front of
5 000 people who otherwise wouldn't have
ever
heard of my particular podcast so it is
really beneficial
to interview other people to leverage
their audience
and just tap into their expertise sure
you may know a lot about a particular
industry
but there is always somebody who maybe
can bring something else to the table
and that is the beauty about podcasting
even if
you are the one who is the expert maybe
you can bring in a guest for
part of your episode to talk about a
particular point
that you don't understand as well or
just to give the audience
somebody else to listen to and a little
bit of change of pace with the content
my first tip for reaching out to a guest
is
don't be scared or intimidated to reach
out to somebody who you really want to
interview
sometimes we get nervous or we have seen
someone
speak for example and we think wow that
person's been on a stage
public speaking at an event there is no
way they would ever
be on my little podcast but you would be
surprised
not everyone is going to say yes but
some people will
especially in this year of 2020 where so
many events have been
cancelled or not happening there are a
lot of people who rely on
speaking and getting their message out
who haven't had the same platform that
they typically have
with so many events being cancelled and
a lot of those individuals have been
so great and so willing to go on some of
the smaller podcasts and share their
information because they want to help
and they want to get
their message out and by your niche
podcast
that might be an audience they otherwise
couldn't tap into
so it's a bit of a win-win and hey if
you get somebody who is a pretty
well-known name on your podcast or on
your youtube interview show
that is going to instantly help your
content the thing that's going to give
you the best success at
getting people on your podcast or
interview show
is doing a little bit of research about
them and then sending out
a really thoughtful message and perhaps
you don't have
the person who you want to interview
their email there are so many ways to
reach people these days through twitter
direct messages
through instagram direct messages
facebook messages
there are often ways to to find
online how to reach certain people that
you want to interview for your episode
and if they say no or perhaps they're
too busy you can always say
hey thanks so much for your
consideration maybe i'll follow up in
six months and
if you have a bit more time there then
awesome and you'd be surprised again
by actually taking that step and
following up down the road
how often people will be willing to go
on your episode
a separate strategy for getting guests
is to get those people who you already
have some relationship with
some people depending on what their
business is they will interview
local people in the community who are
maybe influential
in certain places i have seen a lot of
realtors who have interviewed
various businesses in their community
and they
it as this fun 20 favorite businesses
and 20 days
series whether it's a podcast or a
youtube series and they go around and
they interview different people from the
community
in those cases those individuals are
going to be happy to be on your episode
because
it's almost in a way free content
advertising for them they get to talk
about why their business is so great
but you also get interesting content
because you can find out the story
behind the business
and people who live in your community
are going to find that content
really interesting because it might be
their favorite coffee shop
and you're interviewing the owner but
they never knew the story of how that
coffee shop
actually came into existence and it's
through your content
you can help tell those stories so once
you've secured the guest whether it's
somebody you already know
or somebody lofty who you never thought
maybe they have 200
000 twitter followers and and you're so
excited your mind is blown that they
have agreed to be on your podcast
that is awesome congratulations now you
want to make sure that the guest
is prepared i like to give them a bit of
a heads up of
what to expect on the episode so if
you're doing
a live podcast or a live interview
series
that is another level of intimidation
compared to if it is pre-recorded
pre-recorded gives the guest that
feeling of a bit of a safety net and i'm
not saying one
is better than the other simply make
sure that your guest
knows what they are coming into also you
may want to talk about what
sorts of equipment are going to be
required with one of the podcasts that i
host
we use a website called zencaster to do
interviews
through the other podcast we use zoom
regardless of which platform we're using
it's important that the guest
knows what to expect when they use that
platform and so many of us have used
zoom now i think most of us get it by
this point
but many haven't used zencaster they
need to know
that they need headphones for it to keep
that audio from coming through and being
heard in the computer
they also need a half decent microphone
if it's possible
now we can make most setups work but you
want to give them a heads up
give them little reminders like if
they're using the apple headphones with
a microphone here
and they have long hair you want to make
sure that your hair isn't brushing up
against that microphone because in a
podcast
sound is all we have and if you have
some sort of distracting
scratchy noise or something like that
that is going to be painful to listen to
if you are the audience
so you want to make sure you're setting
your guest up for success
after the interview is complete you also
want to make sure that they know what to
expect
when is this episode going to be coming
out how are you going to
inform them when the episode is out i
like to always get a photo of the guests
so get them to send me their favorite
professional photo or mug shot and i
will incorporate that
with a few photos or episode art so that
when i launch the podcast
i also have something for other social
media networks where i can be sharing
that content out
telling people that the podcast is live
and also
send that content to the guest because
at the end of the day
we want our interviewees to be promoting
the episode just as much as we
are because that is going to be another
audience that we can reach
and who can come across our content
which we really benefit from
in the end i hope this fifth video has
been beneficial for you on
what to think about before you reach out
to interview guests
make sure and check out the other videos
in the series
if you haven't subscribed to the channel
yet make sure you subscribe and turn on
that notification spell so you never
miss a video i'm going to be doing more
of these
eight part communication series
throughout the year
so it's something you don't want to miss
regardless thank you so much for
checking out this video
and i hope i see you soon